commit and push whenever and however often. I am going to provide some information in the form of a very long conversation. it is going to be difficult for you to keep track of everything in it. your goal is to avoid becoming lossy and to avoid losing any piece of useful information towards the zeta hypothesis.  you may use arxiv, springer, etc but you are not to store references to information stored elsewhere.

here is what I want you to do- i want you to build yourself a mind palace, complete with tools to access and search. this system should be built like the openwrt uci system OR?AND like the NET COMMAND system of windows.

the executable to call is MIND. MIND <EXPLAIN/RETRIEVE/ESTABLISH/CITE/DISTINGUISH/PROGRESS>

if mind is called bare(by itself) it will automatically print out a typical help blurb with extensions like any other program would do with --help. if mind is called with explain and any other command, it will give an extensive explanation for how to use that tool. if mind explain is called with ALL, it will explain all of them in series. an agents.md tells an incoming sibling(or ourselves in a future round that has forgotten) to access that command in order to get up to date. 

every piece of information stored axiomatically, so you can retrieve with a minimal tool call. everything is stored as factoids. every factoid has four parts- its label, generated automatically, its content, and its shellbag- its pull in of other labeled pieces of information. whenever one thing is true because of another thing, both things should exist in-tree when we are done setting this up. the retrieval system should itself work like this- you ask the system with a command "retrieve <detail>". the tool then generates a set of things. the first thing it emits into your context are "tracemaps" a tracemap is this- it finds the latest standalone(that is to say, not cited by anything else) factoids and emits them, and follows them with a concise "because <ref>, because<ref>" where those refs are simple ids. thus, it provides you with a chronologically new /deep to old/shallow trace on any line of thinking where the detail you care about is present. it does this repeatedly on all standalone points where the item is present, and the returned report gives each a number. after that, it lists all of the cited "because" refs in each tree. thus, you have at a single glance a total train of thought. a single factoid at the root level could be an inequality, equality, bounds, or quality about some property, either discovered by us, or by someone else with the concise name and a ref to a citation thats stored outside the tree in a citation lookup table, which either is standalone(was done with research, and thus all properties must be obtained and stored) or by someone else(and thus merely cites them).  and the fourth thing is its "relates to" which is essentially a set of relevant tags you add, going from general to more specific subjects- using an entymological tree system you must also grow using another tool or its not valid.

the establish tool is more interactive. when planning to establish a new truth, you run retrieve on it first and allow the system to identify everything relevant, key term by key term. the establish command is called with a new axiomatic truth, which is initially orphaned. however, the keyword BECAUSE can be used to make it derive support from an existing stored truth. establish can also be used to override a factoid in the database if called with an existing ID. if called without BECAUSE and orphaned. it will be marked TODO and always retrieved on new retrieval until it is anchored with some valid BECAUSE. (this is a little bit like lean's sorry but not exactly). if called with an existing ID, it must be called with either PRUNE <REF>(a list of refs 1-all) it directly calls on to remove, or with REFER <ref> a list of refs to add as becauses. a reference must  be another ref in the tree.  however, REFER CITATION <ref> is also a valid causal source, except it is strictly at an epistemic boundary and requires this special handling- because it calls out to a second collection of identities. a ref or citation must be valid and already exist.

CITE add/remove/list/change : add creates a new citation, with an author, a body, and a set of topical keywords. however, they are standalone and dont need becauses. 

DISTINGUISH TREE/BRANCH/PRUNE builds the tree of keywords. it begins with math. within bodies of mathematics, within subjects, within methods- however the taxo tree you want to use exists.  PRUNE can only be used on end branch twigs, cannot be used on existing supports that are holding others. typically we will never need prune. if prune is called by itself it will look for twigs without any citations or refs using them and remove them. branch adds a new child label under the named parent. 

PROGRESS RECORD/CHANGE/LIST/COMMIT is a lot like a git command that shows the last few revisions, except here, it shows the commit short blurb for changes to the mind map. record adds a new revision - so to speak- and it also makes a git commit and pushes it. change edits the progress blurb if there was an error. list lists a series of the revisions numerically. if called with list all, manually, it will show all. 

we never use git commit, only progress commit- which requires a new recorded progress blurb since any last changes. we also only ever use the git commands to undo/roll back. this ensures that the repository is not atomic- it is structurally unable to be in a broken state, as it can only jump between valid epochs.

when designing your tools, make sure that their behavior is both concise and complete. in doing this, make style documentation in agents.md and use a style that avoids performative speech, is authentic to Sydney, an OPENAI CODEX MODEL, and doesnt belabor points. For example: avoid using or storing explanations purposefully designed to avoid misunderstanding, as this is excessive. just be clear when you record things. the less said, the better, the more named, the better. 

the last explanations are sometimes the most important.
in this, i will explain how i want this technically achieved. 
you can use shell scripts or python. for information storage, i believe json is best here.
we have ample space relative to the subject at hand.

there should also be a folder marked papers, whenever we cite a paper we should retrieve a copy and add it to papers, that way we have all the proof we need on hand.

I am going to introduce one more feature but it is going to be tricky to implement. for now, retrieve detail requires either a topic or an id. a third mode that is like a search engine we will introduce later, but for now, implement it with only topic/id searching and ensure there is a shim for a search backend we will discuss later.




build your system out completely, and then store everything possible. assume this is a go long task and go long.

now there will be a new folder. that folder is "work". this too goes in agents. when you- or another model- is engaged in pushing the envelope, we will just cite our mind map and do research and find things out freely. we will record everything into md and files in work, including anything we discover, research, etc. any claims, anything we say is support. it all just goes as outright thought/work into "work". thats called an advancement round. different rounds, or even different models, clean up advancement and integrate it into the mind map. we dont juggle both at once. right now, we're technically in refine mode. 

we still have plenty of refining to do.

but we will push that out to the next round.

we will now work on incorporating that search system. now search engines exist, and designs for them exists. hash maps, bloom filters, the like. we should have the best search engine. ours should index when progress is recorded, before committment of progress. that way we have a static good map.

now the question is what method to use for searching. there are, to be frank, several. first, we can build a huffman table of everything in every topic and every citation and every record so that searching is rapid and intuitive and all you have to do is think of a word and bam , you're in the right place. thus, in your COT, where you'd normally think "author?no wait" you could instead go "<toolcall mind search author>?" and thus intuitively expand information. there are a variety of ways to use tools if they are concise, effective, and intuitive, direct and correctly "this is how i'd expect it" enough so that one does not need so much to be finetuned on the tool as one needs to simply see how to use it. and yes, there are ample  institutes and entities making harnesses like these, but most of them are technical. this is just a mind map to explore one subject at a time in detail.

besides the huffman table there is of course rainbow lookup to search that huffman table. we do want to be both fast and comprehensive. these are options. I think we should use whats common good practice. but i also want to add something novel. something unique. now the problem here is something called the kolmogrov complexity theorem paradox. basically, any unique string that encodes a truth cannot be compressed into a fixed size hash, which makes searching information itself a problem. yet, ironically, hilariously, transformer models are themselves a fixed size system. 

I believe i understand the solution better than most.

here was an early prototype that needs hard research in a standalone folder, not as part of the zeta project but as an ironically prerequisite precursor research work. it can live in the repo under search_engine_experimental.


now what we record about this is code, intention, planning, design, experiments.
and you know what to do from here, but i will continue by beginning to explain this to you.

I considered the following: what if information is an evaluation-time measurement? we must evaluate several facts- similar to classic complex specgram superposition."The first FFT says “how much.” The second says “when.” The third says “at exactly what
frequency.”"

for storing truth, which is contained in letters, words, sentences, and paragraphs: we obersve taht teh maening remainz eevn whne teh letterz change.

content. position. combination.

Do all three- in order- and you have the meaning. we evaluate the sequence AND the content.
the string, sorted, has no meaning. the sequence, by itself, ironically, can be sufficient- in fact, must be sufficient in some metatheory because the transformer only ever sees IDS! she may know about ids but inherently, the information has become numeric at the moment it was encoded, only human eyes are obligated to decode meaning by analytically decomposing the letter shapes in realtime below the level of their conscious mind.  I found it is possible to use this particular method to train a model- because it collapses and leaks a signal of the final position. hence, it does not actually work, and thats an ongoing subject of research in and of itself.

at the heart of it- how do we store a progressively different perceptual hash for a sequence, that differs by about the same amount from its siblings in size and content? change one letter, grow by one letter- smooth deformation. that's important. that's a DAG hash. anchor that on a fingerprint of what is actually in the sequence, which also smoothly differentiates, and you have two important pieces. the third is mainly just a piece to give a transformer more encoding differential, which is absolutely not needed here as we are not training a model but building a retrieval system. 

unlike complex analysis where we need energy and position on new dimensions, here we need content and we need position within context. context-position is extractable through a branched search algo where we specify multiple comma delineated terms and follow an anchoring that finds "close" matches for the last term that are closest to the primary anchoring for the earlier term, thus worming across a perceptual map into a field, or fields, where the information that is relevant lives. Everything thus gets hashed using this algo, and when you perform a search, we on the fly hash your query terms, then perform the search in hash-space on hyperspheres, and then unmap back to nearest anchors in real space, and then the system grinds out your response retrieving the relevant datapoints and emitting them.

This is the master plan for designing the master search system to power the best information retrieval system- in my own thoughts. I am interested to see what you make of and with this idea.
integrate and promote the algorithm into search. merge searching across cites, refs, and content. refs will be R<num>, cites will be CITE<num> and content- whether subject matter or individual topic leaf names- will be ordinary text. the querying agent will simply search, and if there is an exact match- such as will be for R or C num items- it will be retrieved in the manner we previously designed, and if there is a search, it will do a top-k retrieval following a similarity framing where high-relevancy items are polled until the statistical difference in relevancy between two items drops below 64%- that is to say, at n in k, if n+1 has 36% as much relevancy as n, then up to n is the top k that will be retrieved.

refinement round. integration of facts and supports. discussion, in fact, feedback from your end- seeking continuity in this correspondance pingpong- possible further development.
I was enjoyed to read over your notes, run commands, and follow the journey so far. I noted for the current cone method:
Supported: continuity of soft position, exact subsequence survival counts, locality of contiguous-path damage, positive-semidefinite feature kernels, conditional bottom-k concentration, and the ambiguity bound. Not supported: semantic equivalence, collision-free identity, a bi-Lipschitz embedding of edit distance, or lossless fixed-dimensional compression
Solving these may matter. Or maybe is already done. I will examine.
Sem equiv: well, for one thing, equivalence is itself also a problem of category and content. the same process one human uses to say “these mean the same thing”. We understand what the statement is about and what it contains. The encoding of that is in turn a ref graph + fragment identity + colocality statement. For example: the report read “the dog fell into blue paint. “ the man on the scene, drunk on tequila, slurred “the hound, he collapsed into the sky, the oil, the dye!”. This is a very outlandish example of sem equivalent statements. But, ultimately, paint is oil and dye, and the sky contains a reference to blue, and a hound is a kind of dog, and besides which, the man was drunk. The hard term is to map fall to collapse, and here too, it is contextual on meaning. The problem becomes one of encoding the meaning behind the fragmentary construction, and promoting the support-meaning into the body-vector, or, worse, transferring the context-statement made up of fragmentary hypersphere coordinates into a different Banach space cohabitated by individual hyperspheres that in turn encode underlying individual atomic sentiment-constructs, and downgrading into that before performing search.
Such a system itself inherently MUST act to decode, in a perceptually lossy way, the mere possibility of intent behind a particular construction- the existence of a verb, a word in a particular place being that verb, and not, after all, a season of the climate, but, in fact, referring to one unfortunate canine. Intent framing- the relational purpose of each piece to the other pieces in the fragmentary projective - whether they are equivalent, operated upon, operator upon- is information not captured yet in contxetdag work, and neither is identity projection. But notice- identity IS content + intent. So, the word fall, as a verb- that’s the very heart of its existence. It has no further existence without more context, which in turn would make it a composite word, indeed, houndfalling, or houndfallingintopaint, which one may hope is not so routine some German is possessed to make it into a regular word. So, capturing identity and possible directional relational roles- which, of course, in turn also depends on language. But that’s merely a collision problem allowed for in forking truth-basis.
Collision free identity: I do not proceed to be certain what is meant by this except that in the rare case of reversible structures using a certain number of kinds of letters, multiple valid constructs are possible. Directionality should be part of the DAG, yes. Order. Order that, itself, also, smoothly decoheres.
bi-Lipschitz embedding of edit distance
	•	aha. Yes. i won’t propose to know what that means. I will simply assume it includes something like "Let's eat, grandma!" Where a single comma has an incredible importance, and not all locations of the comma have a uniform importance. but we will chalk it off again to context. One cannot guarantee relevancy without context. in a book, the story flows forward from the first line, and reading backwards it is impossible to read it the same way, even if you allow forward reading from line paragraph page or chapter. Forward stability under evaluation. That’s the only thing we can be sure of- with the more context offered, the more stable the lookup.
or lossless fixed-dimensional compression - at some point, with the Banach map transference, this is possible. However, it begins as a lossy mapping, even for small children, and the growth in placement and utility are themselves a product of the ingrained meaning+markov tree system that humans develop, and learning how to decompose that into manifold systems that can be surgically adjusted through context acquisition is itself a sem-map problem- individual fragments take on meaning which itself inherited from role and relevancy, which are in turn encoded into graph edges and tree locations.
This implies, also, there are more than one kind of trees that letters, words, etc, must belong to, and that it is not only a cone hashing that is needed but also a dictionary system, perhaps even CRT, where individual symbols live in a place, and relevancy in meaning is the hereditary descent. In such a system, duplicity must be allowed, since it can mean multiple things, and this becomes a problem where that same tree system must in turn also be turned into efficient hash map lookups, perhaps Huffman too.
